THIS IS A DRAFT. DO NOT USE AS A LICENSE.

                      copyleft-next ("this License")

1. License Grants

   Subject to the terms of this License, I grant You:

   a) A non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license, to reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works
      of, publicly perform, and publicly display My Code.

   b) A non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, irrevocable
      patent license under Licensed Patents, to make, have made, use, sell,
      offer for sale, and import Covered Code. "Licensed Patents" means all
      patent claims licensable royalty-free by Me, now or in the future,
      that are necessarily infringed by making, using, or selling My Code.

2. Distributing Covered Code

   You may distribute Covered Code, subject to the following terms:

   a) Notice Requirements

      The Covered Code must preserve all pertinent Legal Notices contained
      in My Code. "Legal Notices" means copyright notices, license notices,
      license texts and URIs pointing to license texts, and author
      attributions, but does not include logos, other graphical images,
      trademarks, or trademark legends.

   b) No Further Restrictions

      You may not impose restrictions on the exercise of permissions
      granted under this License beyond those contained in this License.
      This condition is not excused merely because such restrictions
      result from Your compliance with mandates or obligations extrinsic
      to this License (such as a court order or an agreement with a third
      party).

      This condition is not violated by:

      i) Distribution of Covered Code incorporating material governed by a
      Compatible License (see Appendix A). You have permission to ignore
      subsection 2c solely to the extent necessary to comply with such
      other license. But the requirement in subsection 2d to provide
      Corresponding Source is in no case limited by this permission. If
      the Compatible License is a GPL-Family License, You have
      permission to ignore any terms in this License that contradict or
      conflict with the terms in that GPL-Family License, provided that
      you comply with the terms of the GPL-Family License.

      ii) Narrowly-tailored measures taken by You to comply with applicable
      export control laws.

      iii) Entering into a contract with a distributee which creates
      temporary disincentives to exercise permissions under this License in
      return for support, maintenance or similar services.

   c) Enhancements

      If You distribute an Enhancement, You must license the Enhancement as
      a whole under this License. This condition may not be circumvented
      through separate distribution of portions of the Enhancement.

   d) Object Code

      If Covered Code is in Object Code form, You must accompany the Object
      Code with a network address through which the Ordinary Corresponding
      Source ("OCS") may be copied, at no charge, by some standard or
      customary means of providing network access to source code. "Object
      Code" means any form of a work that is not Source Code.

      If you distribute the Object Code in a physical product or tangible
      storage medium ("Product"), OCS must be available through such URL
      for two years from the date of Your most recent distribution of the
      Object Code in the Product.

      If the Product itself contains or is accompanied by OCS, You need
      not also comply with the first two paragraphs of this section.

      OCS means: (i) the Source Code form of the Covered Code; (ii) all
      scripts, instructions, know-how, and similar information that are
      reasonably necessary for a skilled developer to generate such Object
      Code from the Source Code provided under (i); and (iii) a list
      clearly identifying all Separate Works (other than those provided in
      compliance with (ii)) that were specifically used in building and (if
      applicable) installing the Covered Code (for example, a specified
      proprietary compiler including its version number). OCS must be
      machine-readable and, to the extent that its licensing is not
      governed by section 2 of this License, must be available under terms
      satisfying the Free Software Foundation's Free Software Definition
      (http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.en.html, version 1.135).

      Each recipient of Covered Code from You is an intended third-party
      beneficiary of this License solely as to this subsection 2d, with the
      right to enforce its terms.

   e) Pass-Through

      When You distribute Covered Code, the recipient automatically
      receives a license to My Code from Me, subject to the terms of this
      License.

   Subsections 2a through 2d are conditions of this License.

3. Network Services Condition

   You may prepare an Enhancement that is designed primarily to provide
   a Network Service, provided that that the Enhancement informs
   Service Users how they may obtain the Network Service Source ("NSS"),
   at no cost, by some standard or customary means of providing network
   access to source code.

   "Network Service" means delivery of software functionality to third-
   party users in which users primarily access such functionality remotely,
   through network requests made by a client program, such as a web browser,
   to a server running the software.

   "Service Users" means: (i) for an Enhancement that You distribute, all
   potential users of the Network Service provided by a recipient, and (ii)
   if You provide the Network Service, all actual users of the Network
   Service.

   NSS means: (i) the Source Code form of the Enhancement; (ii) all
   scripts, instructions, know-how, and similar information that are
   reasonably necessary to use the Enhancement to substantially replicate
   the Network Service, and (iii) a list clearly identifying all Separate
   Works that are specifically used in or required for providing the
   Network Service (for example, a specified web server including its
   version number).

   If I explicitly state in My Work that I opt out of this condition, it
   shall not apply to You. You are not permitted to opt out unless I have
   opted out.

4. Nullification of Copyleft/Proprietary Dual Licensing

   If I distribute Covered Code under a Proprietary License, then the
   licenses I grant You under section 1 are no longer subject to the
   conditions in sections 2 and 3. "Proprietary License" means a license
   which (i) is not royalty-free, (ii) does not permit distribution, (iii)
   does not permit preparation of derivative works, (iv) limits the number
   of licensed users or copies, and/or (iv) contains field-of-use
   restrictions.

5. Copyleft Sunset

   The conditions in sections 2 and 3 no longer apply once fifteen years
   have elapsed from the date of My first distribution of My Code under
   this License.

6. No Trademark License

   This License does not grant any rights in My name, trademarks, service
   marks, or logos.

7. Termination

   Your license grants under section 1 are automatically terminated if You

   a) fail to comply with the conditions of this License, unless You cure
      such noncompliance within thirty days after becoming aware of it, or

   b) initiate a patent infringement litigation claim (excluding
      counterclaims and cross-claims) alleging that all or part of My Code
      directly or indirectly infringes a patent.

   Termination of Your license grants extends to all copies of Covered Code
   You subsequently obtain.

   Termination of Your license grants does not terminate the licenses of
   those who have received copies of Covered Code from You.

   Licenses needed solely to run a copy of Covered Code shall never be
   terminated.

8. Later License Versions

   The Copyleft-Next Project may release new versions of copyleft-next,
   designated by a distinguishing version number ("Later Versions").
   Unless I explicitly remove the option of distributing Covered Works
   under Later Versions, You may distribute Covered Code under any Later
   Version.

9. No Warranty

   Covered Code is provided "as-is", without warranty. You bear the
   risk of using it. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each
   distributor of Covered Code excludes the implied warranties of
   title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and
   noninfringement.

10. Limitation of Liability

    To the extent permitted by applicable law, in no event will any
    distributor of Covered Code be liable to You for any damages
    whatsoever, whether direct, indirect, special, incidental, statutory
    or consequential damages, whether arising under contract, tort
    (including negligence), or otherwise, even where the distributor
    knew or should have known about the possibility of such damages.

11. Severability

    The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this License
    does not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of
    this License. Such provision is to be reformed to the minimum extent
    necessary to make it valid and enforceable.

12. Definitions

    "Compatible License" means a license listed in Appendix A. The
    non-inclusion of a license in Appendix A does not necessarily mean
    that distribution of Covered Code incorporating material governed by
    that license violates section 2 of this License.
    
    "Copyleft-Next Project" means the project that maintains the source
    code repository at <https://github.com/richardfontana/copyleft-next/>
    as of the release date of this License.

    "Covered Code" means My Code or an Enhancement.

    "Enhancement" means a derivative work, collective work or compilation,
    or a work that contains all or part of My Code. But the following are
    not Enhancements:
    (i) Mere Aggregation;
    (ii) a mere reproduction of My Code;
    (iii) if My Code fails to explicitly state an expectation otherwise, a
    work that merely makes reference to My Code; or
    (iv) if My Code provides a Public Interface, other software (alone or
    in combination with My Code) that merely interacts with My Code by way
    of the Public Interface.

    "I"/"Me"/"My" refers to the individual or legal entity that places My
    Work under this License.

    "Mere Aggregation" means an aggregation of Covered Code with a
    Separate Work.

    "My Code" means the particular work of authorship I license to You
    under this License.

    "Public Interface" means FIXME.

    "Separate Work" means a work that is separate from and independent of
    particular Covered Code and is not by its nature an extension or
    enhancement of the Covered Code, and/or is a runtime library, standard
    library, or similar component that is used to generate an Object Code
    form of Covered Code..

    "Source Code" means the preferred form of a work for making
    modifications to it.

    "You"/"Your" refers to the individual or legal
    entity exercising rights in My Code under this License.

Appendix A: Compatible Licenses
-------------------------------

CC0                   https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode
MIT License           http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
2-Clause BSD License  http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause
3-Clause BSD License  http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause
Apache License 2.0    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
MPL 2.0               http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/
EPL 1.0               http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html

GPL-Family Licenses:
GPLv2		      http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0-standalone.html
LGPLv2.1              http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1-standalone.html
GPLv3                 http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0-standalone.html
LGPLv3                https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html
AGPLv3		      https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html
