THIS IS A DRAFT. DO NOT USE AS A LICENSE.

                             Copyleft-Next

  0. Basic Definitions.

  "Covered Work" means the Received Work or a Derived Work.

  "Derived Work" means a work of authorship that copies from,
modifies, adapts, is based on, transforms or translates all or part of
the Received Work such that copyright permission is required, but does
not include (i) the mere making, in isolation, of a verbatim copy of
all or part of the Received Work, or (ii) Mere Aggregation.

  "Distribute" means to transfer or make available a copy of a work to
anyone else (in the case of an organization, to anyone outside of the
organization), to the extent such activity requires copyright
permission. 

  "Copyleft-Next" means the terms contained in this document, except
as otherwise indicated in section 13.

  "Mere Aggregation" means a collection of a Covered Work with other
separate and independent works on a storage or distribution medium, to
the extent such other works are not by their nature extensions or
enhancements of the Covered Work, unless the license of the collection
would limit a user from exercising rights under Copyleft-Next with
respect to the Covered Work.

  "Received Work" means the particular work of authorship We make
available to You under Copyleft-Next.

  "We" means the individual or organization that places the Received
Work under Copyleft-Next.

  "You" means the individual or organization exercising rights under
Copyleft-Next.

  1. License Grants.

  Subject to the terms and conditions of Copyleft-Next, We grant You:

  (a) A non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to
make, copy, Distribute, publicly perform and publicly display Covered
Works, in any medium; and

  (b) A non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under
Licensed Patents to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import
and otherwise transfer Covered Works.  "Licensed Patents" means all
Licensable patent claims, now or in the future, that are necessarily
infringed by making, using, or selling the Received Work, but do not
include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of
further modification of the Received Work. A patent claim is
"Licensable" if We have the right to grant patent licenses under terms
consistent with the requirements of Copyleft-Next.

  The grants above are irrevocable and perpetual except to the extent
Your rights are terminated under section 12.

  Copyleft-Next is not intended to exclude or limit (i) any rights You
have under applicable copyright doctrines of fair use, fair dealing or
other equivalents, and (ii) any implied license or other defense to
infringement that may otherwise be available to You under applicable
patent law.

  2. No Trademark License.

  Copyleft-Next does not grant any rights in Our name, trademarks,
service marks, or logos.

  3. Anti-Circumvention Law.

  When You Distribute a Covered Work, You waive any legal power to
forbid circumvention of technological measures to the extent such
circumvention is effected by exercising rights under Copyleft-Next with
respect to the Covered Work, and You disclaim any intention to limit
operation or modification of the work as a means of enforcing, against
the work's users, Your or third parties' legal rights to forbid
circumvention of technological measures.

  4. Inbound = Outbound.

  "Inbound Contribution" means a Derived Work Distributed by You to Us
for inclusion in a modified or successor version of the Received Work.
Each Inbound Contributions shall be under Copyleft-Next, without any
additional terms or conditions, unless You explicitly indicate
otherwise before, or at the time, You submit the Inbound Contribution.

  5. Distribution: General.

  You may Distribute a Covered Work, provided that You meet all of
these conditions:

  a) Keep intact all copyright notices, textual author attributions,
     license notices, and warranty disclaimers contained in the
     Received Work (in the case of a Derived Work, to the extent such
     notices remain pertinent), and include a copy of Copyleft-Next
     along with the Covered Work or a pointer to a canonical Internet
     address at which a copy of Copyleft-Next is publicly available.

  b) For a Derived Work: License the entire Derived Work under
     Copyleft-Next, and include prominent notice of such
     licensing. This requirement may not be circumvented or diminished
     through such means as separate packaging or separate
     Distribution.  However, if We Proprietary-Relicense, this clause
     b) shall not apply to Your Derived Work. "Proprietary-Relicense"
     means to commercially offer a work that would be a Covered Work
     had You prepared it, under a license that fails to satisfy
     version 1.111 of the Free Software Definition as published by the
     Free Software Foundation ("FSF").

  You may charge any fee for Distributing Covered Works and providing
services relating to Covered Works.

  6. Object Code Distribution.

    a) Definitions.  

      "Source Code" means the preferred form of a work for making
      modifications to it.

      "Object Code" means any form of a work that is not Source Code.

      "System Libraries" means [FIXME].

      "Corresponding Source" of a Covered Work means all the Source
      Code needed to build, compile, generate, modify, install, and
      run the Covered Work (to the extent those activities are
      meaningful), including all relevant scripts and instructions
      necessary to effectively perform, control and/or complete those
      activities.  Corresponding Source does not include (i)
      general-purpose tools used in performing those activities but
      which are separate from and independent of the Covered Work, or
      (ii) the Covered Work's System Libraries. Corresponding Source
      includes interface definition files, and the Source Code of
      shared libraries and dynamically-linked subprograms that the
      Covered Work is specifically designed to require, such as by
      intimate data communication or control flow between those
      subprograms and other parts of the Covered Work.

      "Product" means a physical product or tangible storage medium.

      "Minimum Period", with respect to a Covered Work embodied in a
      Product, means the longer of (i) three years from the date of
      your Distribution of the Product, or (ii) the period during
      which You offer spare parts or customer support for the Product.

   b) Conditions.

  You may Distribute a Covered Work in Object Code form, provided that
You also Distribute its machine-readable Corresponding Source under
Copyleft-Next, in one of the following ways:

      i) If You Distribute such Object Code in a Product, either

	 1) Accompany the Product with a durable physical medium
            customarily used for software storage that contains the
            Corresponding Source, or

         2) Ensure that the Corresponding Source is available to the
            public, at no charge and for the Minimum Period, by way of
            a network location, and accompany the Product with notice
            of such location.

      ii) If You Distribute such Object Code from a network location,
          accompany it with information giving clear directions
          indicating how the Corresponding Source may be obtained from
          a network location at no further charge and in a reasonably
          equivalent manner.

  7. Direct Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time You Distribute a Covered Work, the recipient automatically
receives from Us a license to the Received Work subject to the
License.

  8. No Further Restrictions; Inbound License Compatibility.

  You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the
rights granted or affirmed under Copyleft-Next.

  Further restrictions include alleging in litigation that a patent
claim is infringed by making, using, selling, offering for sale, or
importing the Received Work or any portion of it.

  Distribution of a Covered Work incorporating material covered by the
following free software licenses is not imposition of a "further
restriction". This list of licenses is illustrative and is intended to
guide general interpretation of the initial sentence of this section:
   * Apache License 2.0 <http:///www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html>
   * MIT License <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>
   * 3-clause BSD License <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>
   * zlib license <http://www.gzip.org/zlib/zlib_license.html>
   * Zope Public License Version 2.1 <http://www.zope.com/about_us/legal/zpl.html>

  If a license document contains a further restriction but permits
relicensing or Distributing under Copyleft-Next, You may add to a
Covered Work material governed by the terms of that license document,
provided that the further restriction does not survive such
relicensing or Distributing.

   9. Liberty or Death.

  If conditions are imposed on You (whether by court order, agreement
or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of Copyleft-Next, they do
not excuse You from the conditions of Copyleft-Next.  If You cannot
Distribute a Covered Work in a way that would satisfy simultaneously
Your requirements under Copyleft-Next and any pertinent obligations
extrinsic to Copyleft-Next, then as a consequence You may not Distribute
it at all.

  10. Outbound Compatibility with GNU Strong Copyleft Licenses.

  You may relicense Covered Works under the terms of any version of a
GNU Strong Copyleft License. No condition of Copyleft-Next that would
conflict with the chosen GNU Strong Copyleft License shall survive
such relicensing. "GNU Strong Copyleft License" means (i) the GNU
General Public License, version 2; (ii) the GNU General Public
License, version 3; (iii) the GNU Affero General Public License,
version 3; and/or (iv) a later version of one or more of the foregoing
licenses, all as officially released by the FSF.

  11. Compatibility with Eclipse Public License.

  [FIXME]

  12. Termination.

  If You fail to comply with Copyleft-Next, then, unless you cure such
failure within thirty days after becoming aware of such noncompliance,
Your rights under Copyleft-Next are automatically terminated. However,
the right to make copies necessarily incident to running Covered Works
shall never be terminated.

  Termination of Your rights does not terminate the rights of those
who have received copies or rights from You subject to Copyleft-Next.

  Termination of Your rights disqualifies You from receiving new
licenses for the same material under section 7.

  13. New Versions of Copyleft-Next.

  The initial License Steward is the Copyleft-Next Group. The License
Steward may publish new versions of Copyleft-Next.  Each version will
be given a distinguishing version number. You may Distribute a Covered
Work under the terms of the version of Copyleft-Next under which the
Received Work is licensed, or under the terms of a newer version
published by the License Steward.

  14. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  The Received Work is provided “as-is.”  You bear the risk of using
it.  Neither We nor any Distributor gives any express warranties.  You
may have additional rights under applicable law which Copyleft-Next
cannot change.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, We and all
Distributors exclude the implied warranties of title, merchantability,
fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement.

  15. Limitation of Liability.

  You cannot recover any damages from Us or any Distributor, including
direct, consequential, lost profits, special, indirect or incidental
damages. This limitation applies to the exercise of any rights granted
or affirmed under Copyleft-Next, and to claims for breach of contract,
breach of warranty, strict liability, negligence or other tort to the
extent permitted by applicable law. It applies even if We or any
Distributor knew or should have known about the possibility of such
damages. The foregoing limitation may not apply to You under
applicable law.

  16. Severability.

  If any provision of Copyleft-Next is invalid or unenforceable under
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remainder of Copyleft-Next, and reviewing courts shall reform such
provision to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid
and enforceable.

