THIS IS A DRAFT. DO NOT USE AS A LICENSE.

                             copyleft-next
                       Device Lockdown Supplement

  This supplementary license document incorporates by reference the
terms and conditions of copyleft-next. If and only if Licensor
included these supplementary terms along with the Received Work, they
shall apply to Covered Works.  Inclusion of these terms in a
Distributed Covered Work is otherwise a "further restriction" in
violation of copyleft-next.

  "Consumer Product" means any tangible personal property which is
normally used for personal, family, or household purposes. In
determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases
shall be resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product
received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a typical or
common use of that class of product, regardless of the status of the
particular user or of the way in which the particular user actually
uses, or expects or is expected to use, the product. A product is a
consumer product regardless of whether the product has substantial
commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses
represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

  "User Product" means a Consumer Product or anything designed or sold
for incorporation into a dwelling.

  "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods,
procedures, authorization keys, or other information required to
install and execute Derivative Works of a Covered Work in that User
Product from a Derivative Work of its Corresponding Source. The
information must suffice to ensure that the continued functioning of
the Object Code Derivative Work is in no case prevented or interfered
with solely because modification has been made.

  If You Distribute an Object Code work under section 6 of
copyleft-next in, or with, or specifically for use in, a User Product,
and the Distribution occurs as part of a transaction in which the
right of possession and use of the User Product is transferred to the
recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of how the
transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source Distributed
under this section must be accompanied by the Installation
Information. But this requirement does not apply if neither You nor
any third party retains the ability to install modified Object Code on
the User Product (for example, the work has been installed in
non-field-modifiable ROM).

  The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include
a requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or
updates for a work that has been modified or installed by the
recipient, or for the User Product in which it has been modified or
installed. Access to a network may be denied when the modification
itself materially and adversely affects the operation of the network
or violates the rules and protocols for communication across the
network.